Adding Content to Statements Chapter... (#5)
dabrahams/SwiftRef: chapters/0900 Statements.md

[stmt.stmt] of the C++ standard (http://eel.is/c++draft/#stmt.stmt).
{% endcomment %}

> <div class="admonition grammar">

Reviewer: I guess you used raw HTML here because you could just copy it from the Swift website?  That totally makes sense.

Otherwise, I mean, there's https://kramdown.gettalong.org/quickref.html#html-elements
https://digitaldrummerj.me/styling-jekyll-markdown/ and https://idratherbewriting.com/learnapidoc/pubapis_markdown.html#markdown-and-static-site-generators that can be used to do some of this in a markdown context.  Also you could consider using a liquid variable for repeated stuff like `<span class="arrow"> → </span> `

It occurs to me we should also settle on an indentation standard 😝

	<p class="first admonition-title">Grammar of expression statement</p>
	<div class="syntax-group">
		<p class="syntax-def">
			<a id="statement_expression"></a> 
			<span class="name">statement</span>
			<span class="arrow"> → </span> 
			<a href="0800 Expressions">expression</a>
			<code>;</code><sub>opt</sub>
		</p>
	</div>
</div>

<p class="item"> </p>

> *See*, <a href="0800 Expressions">Expressions</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*See* <a href="0800 Expressions">Expressions</a>.
```

#### Declaration Statement

<div class="admonition grammar">
	<p class="first admonition-title">Grammar of declaration statement</p>
	<div class="syntax-group">
		<p class="syntax-def">
			<a id="statement_declaration"></a>
			<span class="name">statement</span>
			<span class="arrow"> → </span> 
			<a href="1000 Declarations">declaration</a>
			<code>;</code><sub>opt</sub>
		</p>
	</div>
</div>

<p class="item"> </p>

> *See*, <a href="1000 Declarations">Declarations</a>. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*See* <a href="1000 Declarations">Declarations</a>. 
```

### Control Flow Statements

#### Condition List

A condition list is used in branch statements and while statements to determine 

> the path of execution.

Reviewer: The C++ standard uses the term "[flow of control](http://eel.is/c++draft/stmt.select#1)"

<div class="admonition grammar">
	<p class="admonition-title">Grammar of a condition list</p>
	<div class="syntax-group">
		<p class="syntax-def">
			<a id="condition-list"></a>
			<span class="name">condition-list</span>
			<span class="arrow"> → </span> 
			<a href="#condition">condition</a>
			|
			<a href="#condition">condition</a>
			<code>,</code>
			<a href="#condition-list">condition-list</a>
		</p>
		<p class="syntax-def">
			<a id="condition"></a>
			<span class="name">condition</span>
			<span class="arrow"> → </span> 
			<a href="expressions">expression</a>
			|
			<a href="#optional-binding-condition">optional-binding-condition</a>
			|
			<a href="#case-condition">case-condition</a>
			|
			<a href="/inactiveLink">availability-condition</a>
		</p>
	</div>
</div>

<p class="item"> </p>

> A condition list consists of a list of one or more conditions. There are four 

Reviewer: I don't think we need to say this.  You're just restating what's in the grammar.  For example, http://eel.is/c++draft/stmt.block#nt:compound-statement doesn't say a compound statement is one or more statements.

types of conditions:

> * an expression that evaluates to a `Bool`

Reviewer: Not quite the right way to talk about it.  See http://eel.is/c++draft/stmt.pre#6.  It's not that it *evaluates* to a `Bool` but that it *can be evaluated* as `Bool`.  But I'm not sure that's the way to say it.  The whole C++ notion of “[contextually converted](http://eel.is/c++draft/conv#def:conversion,contextual_to_bool)” is needed because of C++'s liberal implicit conversion, so we don't need anything quite that complicated.  But the basic idea is nearly the same: we want a corresponding “contextually *evaluated as* `Bool`,” like:

> Certain language constructs require that an expression be evaluated as a Boolean value. An expression *E* appearing in such a context is said to be *contextually evaluated as `Bool`* and is well-formed if and only if the expression `{ let `*t*`: Bool = `*E*`; return` *t* `}()` would be well-formed in its place, for some unique identifier *t* not otherwise used in the program.

Can't use `as` here unfortunately due to https://forums.swift.org/t/strange-asymmetry-bug-or-feature/38481

Reviewer: Note: the ability to define well-formedness and semantics in terms of syntactic transformations like this is an extremely powerful simplifying tool and we should use it whenever possible.

* an `Optional` binding condition
* a `case` pattern-matching condition
* a compiler `#availability` condition

<p class="item"> </p>

> A condition list evaluates to `true` if all conditions of the condition list 

Reviewer: “Evaluates to” starts to imply a that the condition list (and indeed, each of its conditions) is an expression that could be used in any expression context, but it isn't.  Can we use "is satisfied?”

evaluate to `true`.  

<p class="item"> </p>

> Conditions of a condition list are evaluated in sequence, from left to right.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conditions of a condition list are evaluated in their syntactic order.  
```

If  a condition evaluates to `false`, any remaninig conditions are not evaluated.

<p class="item"> </p>
If an expression is used as a condition, the expression must evaluate to a 

> `Bool`.  Use of any other type of expression is an error.  [Note: The C `bool` 

Reviewer: Not objecting too hard, but the note seems a little out of place here.  

Heh, we need chapters for C and Objective C interop (just filed #8 and #9).

and `Boolean` types and the Objective-C `BOOL` type are all bridged into Swift 
as Bool.]

<p class="item"> </p>
Availability conditions, case conditions and optional binding conditions do not 
directly evaluate to `Bool`.  For purposes of evaluating a condition list, each 
is converted to a `Bool`.  

##### Optional Binding Condition

An optional binding condition attempts to initialize a variable from an instance 

> of `Optional`.  If the initialization succeeds, the variable is available within

Reviewer: I suspect you may be able to use some syntactic transformation here, though I haven't thought it through.

			<a href="#if-statement">if-statement</a>
			<code>;</code><sub>opt</sub>
		</p>
		<p class="syntax-def">
			<span class="name">branch-statement</span>
			<span class="arrow"> → </span> 
			<a href="#guard-statement">guard-statement</a>
			<code>;</code><sub>opt</sub>
		</p>
		<p class="syntax-def">
			<span class="name">branch-statement</span>
			<span class="arrow"> → </span> 
			<a href="#switch-statement">switch-statement</a>
			<code>;</code><sub>opt</sub>
		</p>
	</div>
</div>

##### If Statement
<div class="admonition grammar">
	<p class="admonition-title">Grammar of an if statement</p>
	<div class="syntax-group">
		<p class="syntax-def">
			<span class="name">if-statement</span>
			<span class="arrow"> → </span>
			<code>if</code>
			<a href="condition-list">condition-list</a>
			<a href="/inactiveLink">code-block</a>
			<a href="#else-clause">else-clause</a><sub>opt</sub>
		</p>
		<p class="syntax-def">
			<a id="else-clause"></a>
			<span class="name">else-clause</span>
			<span class="arrow"> → </span> 
			<code>else</code>
			<a href="/inactiveLink">code-block</a>
			|
			<code>else</code>
			<a href="#if-statement">if-statement</a>
		</p>
	</div>
</div>

> <p class="item"> </p>

Reviewer: It would be good to closely follow the pattern of http://eel.is/c++draft/stmt.select in this area of the document.

Reviewer: In fact, when filling in the [sub]sections of each chapter, IMO it would be a good idea to start by using the C++ draft for guidance, and include a link to each corresponding part.   There's so much of value there in terms of just *how to talk about things* in a rigorous way…

> The `if` keyword is dependent upon the `Bool` type declared in the standard 

Reviewer: The meaning of this statement is very non-obvious to me.  Is it relevant where `Bool` is declared?  In what sense can a keyword (syntactic element) be “dependent upon” a type?

Author: One of the unusual (IMO) things about Swift is the core language's dependency upon the standard library.  Things like `if` and `for`-`in` loops simply cannot work without certain types vended by the standard library.  Where that occurs, it seems worth noting.

library.
<p class="item"> </p>

> The code block of an `if` statement is executed if the condition list of the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code block of an `if` statement is executed if and only if the condition list of the 
```

Reviewer: I think we can model this section on http://eel.is/c++draft/stmt.if#1
